# Human-Activity-Recognition-Using-Wearable-Devices
Publications, codes, and datasets related to our work on human activity recognition using IMU sensors embedded on wearable devices


Recognition of human activities has been a long-running research domain, which has received increasing attention over the past few years. Human activity recognition (HAR) systems aim at determining the ongoing activities of a person, a group of persons, or even the crowd based on sensory observation data, as well as some knowledge about the context within which the observed activities take place. In many cases, an activity is required to be recognized regardless of the environment in which it is performed or the performing person. HAR systems can be classified based on the type of sensory information used, as the kind of sensory data greatly affects the kinds of features, algorithms, and intelligent architectures used for analysis. Generally, we can identify the following streams of research and developments in HAR systems: (1) HAR systems based on visual data, (2) HAR systems based on motion sensors such as IMU (Inertial Measurement Unit), and (3) HAR systems based on the received signal strength RSS from commodity routers installed in the surrounding environment.

The overall objective of this project is to build a robust and accurate human activity system based on IMU sensors onboard wearable devices. We conjecture that the accelerometer and Gyroscope rotation velocity signals are complete in the sense that these signals can uniquely (up to a certain small error margin) identify the vast majority of activities that are of interest. One goal of our project is to verify this claim, or at least identify the activities for which this claim hold. Wearable devices include smart watches, smart phones, wrist bands, etc. The proposed system must achieve the following characteristics: (1) it is accurate (enough) to be effective and usable, (2) computationally feasible as an online version will run on a mobile personal device (smart phone), (3) it is robust in the sense that its performance (predictive accuracy, etc.) remains fixed (up to a certain some error margin), and invariant to changes in the hardware and software characteristics of the sensing wearable device as well as to the spatial location and other variations; this means that the system should be calibration-free, (4) it is able to effectively and continuously in real-time recognize the current activity of the user in addition to the switching points between different activities, (5) able to do an offline analysis for statistical analysis of the user’s activity pattern over some extended period of time, (6) able to offline detect abnormality of change in the user’s typical behavioral pattern, overall and in specific activities, (7) able to detect an online anomaly such as falling, and (7) detect and recognize joint activities among the users and one or more companion.
